# Applications

Applications of the recently introduced Edge Computing have been developing over the 
last few years, increasing with the expansion of communication technologies and Internet 
of Things (IoT). The focus of these innovations applying Edge Architecture revolve around 
the concept of smart devices, smart cities, massive Cloud computing and mobile Edge 
Computing. The utilization of these modern technologies, as stated before, helps information 
to be analyzed faster, with less latency and with greater efficiency, enhancing direct 
cause-and-effect interactions.

A fitting example of the cause-and-effect situations which control is attributed to Edge 
Computing is the set of appliances inside what is known as a “smart home”. Complex actions 
such as controlling lighting around the house, security systems, controlling energy and 
water consumption, and turning on and off devices, can be realized remotely by the 
application of this technology; the obtaining of signals from an electronic device are 
instantly passed through these systems, allowing the process to be done in a matter of 
seconds, or even less [@hamdan2020edge]. 

The whole operation in which instructions are received and sent is located as near as 
possible to the remotes that produce said commands. As stated by [@yu2017survey], “these 
device-to-device networks allow devices to exchange information in hybrid communication 
protocols”, which allow the process to achieve the Quality of Service (QoS) requirements.

To continue with an example of a larger scale, one of the most used applications of the 
technology of interest is located inside industrial processes. Numerous businesses 
developed a new perspective regarding the storage and analysis of information. As stated 
in the definition of Edge Computing, the information would be analyzed by nodes on the 
edge of its retrieval. This would allow servers to process less amount of data, enhancing 
the latency and a faster response to the instructions provided, and cleanses the 
information, so that only the necessary data is transmitted to the headquarters of the 
business [@wang2020deep]. 

Finally, the greatest level of application of Edge Computing consists of the widely known term “Smart Cities”. [@hamdan2020edge] define a smart city as “one that uses various types of IoT devices to collect data and uses these data to manage events and deliver insights”. With this statement, it is possible to asume that the computing on edge proliferates in such cities. 

Some of the examples of the technology of interest is the control of water consumption, energy management, lighting and control on the roads; this last one rises upon the others due to its rapid advancements, where the objective focuses on enhancing the safety of drivers and traffic management [@wang2020deep].
